New Delhi: The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Thursday said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) searches at Dravida Munnettra Kazhagam (DMK) leader MK Stalin's residence came within 24 hours after the party withdrew support to the UPA government and claimed it was a "clear signal" to the parties supporting the ruling dispensation. Senior party leader Sitaram Yechury also termed the agency as "Congress Bureau of Investigation".
"Within 24 hours after they (DMK) withdrew support, these raids took place. The CBI can, therefore, only be called the 'Congress Bureau of Investigation'," Yechury told reporters in the national capital. "The Prime Minister has also thrown his hands. If the PM, as the head of the government, does not know what his government is doing, it is a sad state of affairs," he said.
Observing that senior ministers were also not aware as to who ordered these raids, Yechury said,"the only authority who stopped these raids will be the one who ordered it." The CBI raids are "a clear signal to the supporting parties to look out for," he said, adding that the Left parties were examining whether the direction to CBI fell under the 'breach of privilege'.
Sitaram Yechury said the incident was a clear signal to the parties supporting the ruling dispensation.
Replying to question on the stability of the government, Yechury said,"it became a minority government after the Trinamool Congress withdrew support."
"Like inflation, the costs (for UPA) will go up with each passing day of their survival. This does not augur well for the country," he said, adding it was "very clear that uncertainty will continue to prevail." The CPI(M) leader parried a question whether the Left would move a no-confidence motion against the government, but said though General Elections were slated in 2014, "discussions will be held on the evolving political situation between parties. Or the situation itself may snowball in which they (UPA) will either continue to linger on or the early elections will come."
